====

Tell me about yourself
Explain current project 
What is your day to day activity


Terraform


1.Create an S3 Bucket with Versioning and Tags

->Bucket name should be dynamically passed as a variable.
->Enable versioning on the bucket.
->Add tags: Environment = dev and Owner = devops.


2.Create a Security Group for a Web Application  
->Inbound traffic on port 22 (SSH) and port 80 (HTTP) from anywhere
->All outbound traffic


1. what is Terraform modules and why do we use ?
2. what do you mean by statefiles and how do secure those files?
3. how to migrate existing environment that we created manually through terraform
4. Someone has created the resource manually, you are on shift next morning, how do you solve the problem, and some drift detection happens, and how do you restrict them?
5. What are the terraform commands you were using for day-today work?
6. How do you unlock the terraform if the lock happens?
7. When running terraform apply, the process gets hung. Now if you cancel that is might result in corrupt terraformstate. How would you debug this issue?
8. Tell me about CI/CD tools that you worked?
9. For each and count the difference, provide examples in terraform
10. You need to provision an ECS cluster using Terraform. Walk me through the modules and resources you’d use.


AWS interview questions


What are the AWS Services you worked?

How did you set up the load balancers?

where do you attach the certificates in to loadbalancer?

How would you define loadbalancer in terms of scalability ?

What are the components you define to create VPC?

which context you worked on S3 bucket?

route 53 overiew and architecture ?


your ECS service is running fine, but under load, new tasks are not getting scheduled. What could be the possible issues?
Your application logs need to be sent to CloudWatch from an ECS container. How will you configure this?
Your pipeline pushes a new image to ECR and deploys to ECS. After the pipeline runs, the service is unhealthy. How do you troubleshoot this?
you are tasked with migrating ECS services from EC2 launch type to Fargate. What steps would you follow and what challenges might you face?
How do you securely pass environment variables like DB passwords to ECS tasks via Terraform


iN jENKINS - cicd

Please share additional profiles at the earliest.





1.How do you design a fault-tolerant architecture in the cloud?

2.Your AWS bill spiked unexpectedly this month. Walk through your approach to investigate, fix, and prevent this in the future

3.Your application is currently a monolith running on EC2. The business wants to scale features independently. The CTO asks you to lead a migration to microservices using containers. How would you plan and execute this in AWS?
what AWS services would you use to host, deploy, and scale these services securely and efficiently?

4. You currently have a web application running on a single EC2 instance. The business expects higher traffic soon. How would you migrate this setup to support scaling, high availability, and fault tolerance?

5.You need to migrate a MySQL database from on-premises to AWS with minimal downtime. What approach would you take, and what challenges might arise?

6.You’re tasked with moving a Node.js app from EC2 to containers using AWS ECS. What steps will you follow, and what AWS services will be involved?

7.If RDS is hosted in us-west region and has read replicas spread across other region, due to some issue us-west region is down, how will you redirect your traffic. But having one more DB is expensive to the client

8.Explain a Recent challegence that you have faced with AWS and how did you solve it

9. Difference between NACL VS SG

10. what will you do when AWS RDS is Full 


Docker

1. difference between CMD and entry point?
2. Data is lost when container stop and restart, how will you fix it
3. write an docker file for node.js app


Kubernets

Exaplain about kubernetes architceture
what are different types if service in kuberenets
explain the deployment stargegy that you follow in orgnanziation
How to you upgrade the EKS cluster in AWS and what are steps that you followed 
Explaim the rollback straegy that yiy follow in your ognanization



Git

What is git branching strategy used in your organisation

what is deployment starartgeies you have worked on

what are git commands that you have used



Begioural question:

Describe a high-pressure incident where infrastructure went down due to a bad deployment. How did you manage it and what did you learn?
Describe a time you made a mistake in a Terraform config that affected production. What was the outcome and how did you prevent it from happening again?
Tell me about a time you implemented Infrastructure as Code using Terraform in a large-scale project. What were the challenges and how did you overcome them?

Automation
Can you write a simple Python script that reads a list of EC2 instance names and instance types from a JSON file and outputs it for Terraform use?



1)
You are working in a team where the Terraform state is stored remotely in an S3 bucket.
One day, the state file becomes corrupted or accidentally deleted.
How will you recover the Terraform state and ensure no further impact on infrastructure?

2)A teammate made manual changes to infrastructure outside of Terraform. How would you detect and reconcile these changes?
  
3)How would you enforce tagging, location, or size restrictions on AWS resources across all Terraform codebases?

4) How do you securely manage Terraform state files and avoid exposing secrets?

5)our Terraform plan shows significant drift in resources. Some were deleted manually and others changed. How do you handle this situation?



Incorrect Resource Attribute

resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  ami           = "ami-12345678"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
  zone          = "us-east-1a"
}


Create an EC2 Instance with Tags and Key Pair
Provision an S3 Bucket with Versioning Enabled


->You have a Spring Boot Java application packaged as a JAR file, named app.jar.
->Your goal is to write a Dockerfile that builds a container image to run this application.



Tell me about yourself?
What are the AWS Services you worked?
How did you set up the load balancers?
where do you attach the certificates in to loadbalancer?
How would you define loadbalancer in terms of scalability ?
What are the components you define to create VPC?
which context you worked on S3 bucket?
route 53 overiew and architecture ?
Describe Pipeline workflow?


Terraform commands?
how do you define the version and what is the importance of it ?
how do you call the module?
how u can fetch the secrets?
when u run the plan what do u see ?
how do you secure the state file?
how can you control access/permissions in aws & how do u define?




your ECS service is running fine, but under load, new tasks are not getting scheduled. What could be the possible issues?
Your application logs need to be sent to CloudWatch from an ECS container. How will you configure this?
Your pipeline pushes a new image to ECR and deploys to ECS. After the pipeline runs, the service is unhealthy. How do you troubleshoot this?
you are tasked with migrating ECS services from EC2 launch type to Fargate. What steps would you follow and what challenges might you face?




EC2 + Security

“Your EC2 instance is launched but is not reachable over SSH. Walk me through how you’d debug this.”

VPC Design

“Can you design a secure VPC with public/private subnets, and expose a web app using an ALB?”

IAM Policy

“You’ve given an S3 full-access policy to a role, but your ECS task still can’t upload files. What would you check?”

Monitoring

“How would you set up alerting and logging for ECS tasks or Lambda functions?”

Backup/Disaster Recovery

“If RDS is deleted accidentally, how would you recover it? What should have been in place to avoid downtime?”
